docs/patch.md, before:

# Regular patch command

Regular [patch commands](crud.md#patch-command) perform a partial modification
of existing models by setting the model with specified values.

```HTTP
PATCH /rest/users/1

{ "city": "Copenhagen" }
```

will respond with the newly modified model:

```json
{
  "data": { "id": "1", "name": "Anthony", "city": "Copenhagen" }
}
```

# Advanced patch command

Advanced [patch commands](crud.md#patch-command) uses operators to perform a
transformation on the model's attributes. Operators are objects describing
the transformation to apply as `{ "_OPERATOR": ARGUMENT }`, e.g.
`{ "_add": 1 }`.

```HTTP
PATCH /rest/users/1

{ "age": { "_add": 1 } }
```

will increment the user's `age` by `1` and respond with the newly modified
model:

```json
{
  "data": { "id": "1", "name": "Anthony", "age": 31 }
}
```

# Array attributes

Some patch operators are specific to arrays, e.g. `_push` or `_pop`. Others
are specific to scalar attributes, e.g. `_add`.

If a scalar patch operator is applied to an array attribute, it will be applied
to each element of the array.

For example:

```HTTP
PATCH /rest/users/1

{ "scores": { "_mul": 100 } }
```

will multiply each `score`'s element by `100` and respond with the newly
modified model:

```json
{
  "data": { "id": "1", "name": "Anthony", "scores": [200, 300, 800] }
}
```

# Cross-attributes patch

It is possible to refer to another attribute of the same model using the
`model.ATTRIBUTE` notation.

```HTTP
PATCH /rest/users/1

{ "first_name": { "_set": "model.name" } }
```

or the shorter syntax:

```HTTP
PATCH /rest/users/1

{ "first_name": "model.name" }
```

will set the model's `first_name` to the same value as its `name`, and respond
with the newly modified model:

```json
{
  "data": { "id": "1", "name": "Anthony", "first_name": "Anthony" }
}
```

# Available operators

## `_set`

The `_set` operator assigns the value, like `variable = value` in JavaScript.

```HTTP
PATCH /rest/users/1

{ "first_name": { "_set": "Anthony" } }
```

It is the same as [regular patch commands](#regular-patch-command):

```HTTP
PATCH /rest/users/1

{ "first_name": "Anthony" }
```

## `_invert`

The `_invert` operator flips a `boolean` attribute, like `variable = !variable`
in JavaScript. Its argument must always be `null`.

```HTTP
PATCH /rest/users/1

{ "is_manager": { "_invert": null } }
```

## `_add`

The `_add` operator increments a `number` or `integer` attribute, like
`variable += value` in JavaScript.

```HTTP
PATCH /rest/users/1

{ "money": { "_add": 10.5 } }
```

## `_sub`

The `_sub` operator decrements a `number` or `integer` attribute, like
`variable -= value` in JavaScript.

```HTTP
PATCH /rest/users/1

{ "money": { "_sub": 10.5 } }
```

## `_mul`

The `_mul` operator multiplies a `number` or `integer` attribute, like
`variable *= value` in JavaScript.

```HTTP
PATCH /rest/users/1

{ "money": { "_mul": 2 } }
```

## `_div`

The `_div` operator divides a `number` or `integer` attribute, like
`variable /= value` in JavaScript.

```HTTP
PATCH /rest/users/1

{ "money": { "_div": 2 } }
```

## `_replace`

The `_replace` operator replaces a string by another string inside a `string`
attribute, like `variable.replace(regExp, value)` in JavaScript. The argument
must be an array with the following elements:
  - a regular expression, as a string: the pattern to replace
  - the new value, as a string. It can contain the `$1`, `$&`, etc. like
    the `replace()` JavaScript function.
  - the regular expression flags. This is optional and defaults to `gi`

```HTTP
PATCH /rest/article/1

{ "title": { "_replace": ["Anthony", "George"] } }
```

## `_insertstr`

The `_insertstr` operator inserts a string inside a `string` attribute at a
given position. The argument must be an array with the following elements:
  - the position where to insert inside the string, as an integer.
    It can be a positive integer (position from the beginning), a negative
    integer (position from the end) or `null` (i.e. the end).
  - the new value, as a string.

```HTTP
PATCH /rest/article/1

{ "title": { "_insertstr": [null, " text to append"] } }
```

## `_slicestr`

The `_slicestr` operator extracts part of a `string` attribute at a given
start and end position. The argument must be an array with the following
elements:
  - the position where the slice starts inside the string, as an integer.
    It can be a positive integer (position from the beginning), a negative
    integer (position from the end) or `null` (i.e. the end).
  - the position where the slice ends, using the same kind of integer.
    It defaults to the end of the string.

```HTTP
PATCH /rest/article/1

{ "title": { "_slicestr": [0, 100] } }
```

## `_insert`

The `_insert` operator inserts some values inside an `array` attribute at a
given position. The argument must be an array with the following elements:
  - the position where to insert inside the array, as an integer.
    It can be a positive integer (position from the beginning), a negative
    integer (position from the end) or `null` (i.e. the end).
  - the new values, as several arguments.

```HTTP
PATCH /rest/user/1

{ "scores": { "_insert": [5, 100, 500, 300] } }
```

## `_slice`

The `_slice` operator extracts part of an array attribute at a given
start and end position. The argument must be an array with the following
elements:
  - the position where the slice starts inside the array, as an integer.
    It can be a positive integer (position from the beginning), a negative
    integer (position from the end) or `null` (i.e. the end).
  - the position where the slice ends, using the same kind of integer.
    It defaults to the end of the array.

```HTTP
PATCH /rest/user/1

{ "scores": { "_slice": [0, 100] } }
```

## `_push`

The `_push` operator inserts some values at the end of an `array` attribute.
The argument must be the values to insert.

```HTTP
PATCH /rest/user/1

{ "scores": { "_push": [100, 500, 300] } }
```

## `_unshift`

The `_unshift` operator inserts some values at the beginning of an `array`
attribute. The argument must be the values to insert.

```HTTP
PATCH /rest/user/1

{ "scores": { "_unshift": [100, 500, 300] } }
```

## `_pop`

The `_pop` operator removes the last value of an `array` attribute.
The argument must always be `null`.

```HTTP
PATCH /rest/user/1

{ "scores": { "_pop": null } }
```

## `_shift`

The `_shift` operator removes the first value of an `array` attribute.
The argument must always be `null`.

```HTTP
PATCH /rest/user/1

{ "scores": { "_shift": null } }
```

## `_remove`

The `_remove` operator removes values from an `array` attribute.
The argument must be the set of values to remove.

```HTTP
PATCH /rest/user/1

{ "scores": { "_remove": [100, 200, 500] } }
```

## `_sort`

The `_sort` operator sort the values of an `array` attribute.
The argument must be either `asc` or `desc` to specify the sorting order.
It defaults to `asc`.

```HTTP
PATCH /rest/user/1

{ "scores": { "_sort": "asc" } }
```

# Custom operators

It is possible to specify custom patch operators with the
`operators` [configuration property](configuration.md#properties), for example:

```yml
operators:
  __power:
    apply: (value ** (arg || 1))
    attribute: [number, integer]
    argument: [number, integer, empty]
```

The key (here `__power`) is the operator's name. The value is an object with
four properties: `apply`, `check`, `attribute` and `argument`. Only `apply`
is required, but `attribute` and `argument` are recommended.

## `apply` property

`apply` is a [function](functions.md) performing the transformation.
It must return the new value after the transformation has been applied.
Besides the regular [function variables](functions.md#variables), the
following variables can be used:
  - `value`: the current value of the attribute, i.e. before transformation
  - `arg`: the argument passed to the patch operator
  - `type`: the attribute's type, e.g. `string` or `integer`

## `attribute` property

`attribute` is the list of attribute types that can use this operator.

For example, an `__power` operator can only be used on numerical attributes,
i.e. `integer` and `number`.

The possible values are: `string`, `number`, `integer`, `boolean`, `any`,
`string[]`, `number[]`, `integer[]`, `boolean[]` and `any[]`.

## `argument` property

`argument` is the list of possible types for the argument of this operator.

For example, a `__power` operator must take a single numerical value as
argument, i.e. `integer` and `number`. We might also allow an `empty`
argument if there is a default argument value.

The possible values are the same as `attribute` with the following additional
types: `empty`, `empty[]`, `object` and `object[]`.

If several arguments must be passed, it should be done by specifying an array
argument. To specify an array argument with mixed types, use several array
types. For example `argument: ['number[]', 'string[]']` requires the argument
to be an array containing either numbers, strings or a mix of them.

Remember that the `number` argument excludes integers. Use both the `number`
and the `integer` types if you want to allow any floating number.

## `check` property

`check` is a [function](functions.md) applied to validate the argument
of the patch operator. It should be used if the `argument` property is not
flexible enough, e.g. if the argument is required to be a positive integer.

If the validation succeeds, it should not return anything. Otherwise, it
should return the error message as a string.

The same [function variables](functions.md#variables) as `apply` are available,
with the exception of `value`.

## Throwing errors

Neither the `apply` nor the `check` property should throw errors.
Use the `attribute`, `argument` and `check` properties for validation instead.

## Empty values

When defining the `apply` and `check` properties, remember that:
  - the `value` variable might be `undefined`, unless the attribute is a
    required attribute.
  - the operator's argument can only be `null` if the `argument` property is
    omitted or if it specifies `empty`. When the argument is `empty`, the
    `arg` variable will be `undefined`.

Commit message:

Rename schema variables to parameters

docs/patch.md, after:

# Regular patch command

Regular [patch commands](crud.md#patch-command) perform a partial modification
of existing models by setting the model with specified values.

```HTTP
PATCH /rest/users/1

{ "city": "Copenhagen" }
```

will respond with the newly modified model:

```json
{
  "data": { "id": "1", "name": "Anthony", "city": "Copenhagen" }
}
```

# Advanced patch command

Advanced [patch commands](crud.md#patch-command) uses operators to perform a
transformation on the model's attributes. Operators are objects describing
the transformation to apply as `{ "_OPERATOR": ARGUMENT }`, e.g.
`{ "_add": 1 }`.

```HTTP
PATCH /rest/users/1

{ "age": { "_add": 1 } }
```

will increment the user's `age` by `1` and respond with the newly modified
model:

```json
{
  "data": { "id": "1", "name": "Anthony", "age": 31 }
}
```

# Array attributes

Some patch operators are specific to arrays, e.g. `_push` or `_pop`. Others
are specific to scalar attributes, e.g. `_add`.

If a scalar patch operator is applied to an array attribute, it will be applied
to each element of the array.

For example:

```HTTP
PATCH /rest/users/1

{ "scores": { "_mul": 100 } }
```

will multiply each `score`'s element by `100` and respond with the newly
modified model:

```json
{
  "data": { "id": "1", "name": "Anthony", "scores": [200, 300, 800] }
}
```

# Cross-attributes patch

It is possible to refer to another attribute of the same model using the
`model.ATTRIBUTE` notation.

```HTTP
PATCH /rest/users/1

{ "first_name": { "_set": "model.name" } }
```

or the shorter syntax:

```HTTP
PATCH /rest/users/1

{ "first_name": "model.name" }
```

will set the model's `first_name` to the same value as its `name`, and respond
with the newly modified model:

```json
{
  "data": { "id": "1", "name": "Anthony", "first_name": "Anthony" }
}
```

# Available operators

## `_set`

The `_set` operator assigns the value, like `variable = value` in JavaScript.

```HTTP
PATCH /rest/users/1

{ "first_name": { "_set": "Anthony" } }
```

It is the same as [regular patch commands](#regular-patch-command):

```HTTP
PATCH /rest/users/1

{ "first_name": "Anthony" }
```

## `_invert`

The `_invert` operator flips a `boolean` attribute, like `variable = !variable`
in JavaScript. Its argument must always be `null`.

```HTTP
PATCH /rest/users/1

{ "is_manager": { "_invert": null } }
```

## `_add`

The `_add` operator increments a `number` or `integer` attribute, like
`variable += value` in JavaScript.

```HTTP
PATCH /rest/users/1

{ "money": { "_add": 10.5 } }
```

## `_sub`

The `_sub` operator decrements a `number` or `integer` attribute, like
`variable -= value` in JavaScript.

```HTTP
PATCH /rest/users/1

{ "money": { "_sub": 10.5 } }
```

## `_mul`

The `_mul` operator multiplies a `number` or `integer` attribute, like
`variable *= value` in JavaScript.

```HTTP
PATCH /rest/users/1

{ "money": { "_mul": 2 } }
```

## `_div`

The `_div` operator divides a `number` or `integer` attribute, like
`variable /= value` in JavaScript.

```HTTP
PATCH /rest/users/1

{ "money": { "_div": 2 } }
```

## `_replace`

The `_replace` operator replaces a string by another string inside a `string`
attribute, like `variable.replace(regExp, value)` in JavaScript. The argument
must be an array with the following elements:
  - a regular expression, as a string: the pattern to replace
  - the new value, as a string. It can contain the `$1`, `$&`, etc. like
    the `replace()` JavaScript function.
  - the regular expression flags. This is optional and defaults to `gi`

```HTTP
PATCH /rest/article/1

{ "title": { "_replace": ["Anthony", "George"] } }
```

## `_insertstr`

The `_insertstr` operator inserts a string inside a `string` attribute at a
given position. The argument must be an array with the following elements:
  - the position where to insert inside the string, as an integer.
    It can be a positive integer (position from the beginning), a negative
    integer (position from the end) or `null` (i.e. the end).
  - the new value, as a string.

```HTTP
PATCH /rest/article/1

{ "title": { "_insertstr": [null, " text to append"] } }
```

## `_slicestr`

The `_slicestr` operator extracts part of a `string` attribute at a given
start and end position. The argument must be an array with the following
elements:
  - the position where the slice starts inside the string, as an integer.
    It can be a positive integer (position from the beginning), a negative
    integer (position from the end) or `null` (i.e. the end).
  - the position where the slice ends, using the same kind of integer.
    It defaults to the end of the string.

```HTTP
PATCH /rest/article/1

{ "title": { "_slicestr": [0, 100] } }
```

## `_insert`

The `_insert` operator inserts some values inside an `array` attribute at a
given position. The argument must be an array with the following elements:
  - the position where to insert inside the array, as an integer.
    It can be a positive integer (position from the beginning), a negative
    integer (position from the end) or `null` (i.e. the end).
  - the new values, as several arguments.

```HTTP
PATCH /rest/user/1

{ "scores": { "_insert": [5, 100, 500, 300] } }
```

## `_slice`

The `_slice` operator extracts part of an array attribute at a given
start and end position. The argument must be an array with the following
elements:
  - the position where the slice starts inside the array, as an integer.
    It can be a positive integer (position from the beginning), a negative
    integer (position from the end) or `null` (i.e. the end).
  - the position where the slice ends, using the same kind of integer.
    It defaults to the end of the array.

```HTTP
PATCH /rest/user/1

{ "scores": { "_slice": [0, 100] } }
```

## `_push`

The `_push` operator inserts some values at the end of an `array` attribute.
The argument must be the values to insert.

```HTTP
PATCH /rest/user/1

{ "scores": { "_push": [100, 500, 300] } }
```

## `_unshift`

The `_unshift` operator inserts some values at the beginning of an `array`
attribute. The argument must be the values to insert.

```HTTP
PATCH /rest/user/1

{ "scores": { "_unshift": [100, 500, 300] } }
```

## `_pop`

The `_pop` operator removes the last value of an `array` attribute.
The argument must always be `null`.

```HTTP
PATCH /rest/user/1

{ "scores": { "_pop": null } }
```

## `_shift`

The `_shift` operator removes the first value of an `array` attribute.
The argument must always be `null`.

```HTTP
PATCH /rest/user/1

{ "scores": { "_shift": null } }
```

## `_remove`

The `_remove` operator removes values from an `array` attribute.
The argument must be the set of values to remove.

```HTTP
PATCH /rest/user/1

{ "scores": { "_remove": [100, 200, 500] } }
```

## `_sort`

The `_sort` operator sort the values of an `array` attribute.
The argument must be either `asc` or `desc` to specify the sorting order.
It defaults to `asc`.

```HTTP
PATCH /rest/user/1

{ "scores": { "_sort": "asc" } }
```

# Custom operators

It is possible to specify custom patch operators with the
`operators` [configuration property](configuration.md#properties), for example:

```yml
operators:
  __power:
    apply: (value ** (arg || 1))
    attribute: [number, integer]
    argument: [number, integer, empty]
```

The key (here `__power`) is the operator's name. The value is an object with
four properties: `apply`, `check`, `attribute` and `argument`. Only `apply`
is required, but `attribute` and `argument` are recommended.

## `apply` property

`apply` is a [function](functions.md) performing the transformation.
It must return the new value after the transformation has been applied.
Besides the regular [parameters](functions.md#parameters), the
following parameters can be used:
  - `value`: the current value of the attribute, i.e. before transformation
  - `arg`: the argument passed to the patch operator
  - `type`: the attribute's type, e.g. `string` or `integer`

## `attribute` property

`attribute` is the list of attribute types that can use this operator.

For example, an `__power` operator can only be used on numerical attributes,
i.e. `integer` and `number`.

The possible values are: `string`, `number`, `integer`, `boolean`, `any`,
`string[]`, `number[]`, `integer[]`, `boolean[]` and `any[]`.

## `argument` property

`argument` is the list of possible types for the argument of this operator.

For example, a `__power` operator must take a single numerical value as
argument, i.e. `integer` and `number`. We might also allow an `empty`
argument if there is a default argument value.

The possible values are the same as `attribute` with the following additional
types: `empty`, `empty[]`, `object` and `object[]`.

If several arguments must be passed, it should be done by specifying an array
argument. To specify an array argument with mixed types, use several array
types. For example `argument: ['number[]', 'string[]']` requires the argument
to be an array containing either numbers, strings or a mix of them.

Remember that the `number` argument excludes integers. Use both the `number`
and the `integer` types if you want to allow any floating number.

## `check` property

`check` is a [function](functions.md) applied to validate the argument
of the patch operator. It should be used if the `argument` property is not
flexible enough, e.g. if the argument is required to be a positive integer.

If the validation succeeds, it should not return anything. Otherwise, it
should return the error message as a string.

The same [parameters](functions.md#parameters) as `apply` are available,
with the exception of `value`.

## Throwing errors

Neither the `apply` nor the `check` property should throw errors.
Use the `attribute`, `argument` and `check` properties for validation instead.

## Empty values

When defining the `apply` and `check` properties, remember that:
  - the `value` [parameter](functions.md#parameters) might be `undefined`,
    unless the attribute is a required attribute.
  - the operator's argument can only be `null` if the `argument` property is
    omitted or if it specifies `empty`. When the argument is `empty`, the
    `arg` [parameter](functions.md#parameters) will be `undefined`.
