docs/validation.md, before:

# Data validation

Attributes can be validated by specifying in the [IDL file](idl.md)
`attribute.validate`.

`attribute.validate` is a standard [JSON schema](http://json-schema.org/),
version 6:
  - the following keywords are available:
    - for attributes of type `integer` or `number`:
      - `multipleOf` `{float}`
      - `maximum` `{float}`: `<=`
      - `exclusiveMaximum` `{float}`: `<`
      - `minimum` `{float}`: `>=`
      - `exclusiveMinimum` `{float}`: `>`
    - for attributes of type `string`:
      - `maxLength` `{integer}`: `<=`
      - `minLength` `{integer}`: `>=`
      - `pattern` `{regex}`
      - `format` `{string}`: among `'regex'`, `'date-time'`, `'date'`,
        `'time'`, `'email'`, `'hostname'`, `'ipv4'`, `'ipv6'`, `'uri'`,
        `'uri-reference'`, `'json-pointer'`, `'relative-json-pointer'`
      - `formatMaximum` `{string}`, `formatMinimum` `{string}`,
        `formatExclusiveMaximum` `{boolean}`,
        `formatExclusiveMinimum` `{boolean}`: only if `format` is `date`, `time`
        or `date-time`.
    - for attributes of array type:
      - `maxItems` `{integer}`: `<=`
      - `minItems` `{integer}`: `>=`
      - `uniqueItems` `{boolean}`: no duplicate
      - `contains` `{json_schema}`: at least one item is valid
      - `items` `{json_schema}`: all items are valid
      - `additionalItems` `{json_schema}`
    - for any attribute:
      - `const` `{any}`: must equal that value
      - `enum` `{any[]}`: must equal one of those values
      - `required` `{boolean}`: checked on `replace`, `create` and
        `upsert` actions.
      - `dependencies` `{string[]}`: attributes that are required
        for the current attribute to be defined.
    - used as combinators:
      - `not` `{json_schema}`
      - `allOf` `{json_schema[]}`
      - `anyOf` `{json_schema[]}`
      - `oneOf` `{json_schema[]}`
      - `if` `{json_schema}`, `then` `{json_schema}`, `else` `{json_schema}`
  - the following properties are not available: `type`, `description`,
    `examples`, `default`, `title`, `$id`, `$schema`, `$ref`, `definitions`
  - since attributes cannot be objects, the following properties are also
    not available: `maxProperties`, `minProperties`, `additionalProperties`,
    `properties`, `patternProperties`, `propertyNames`

E.g.:

```yml
weight:
  validate:
    minimum: 10
```

# Custom validation

If the pre-defined validation keywords are not sufficient, one can define
custom ones, using the top-level `validation` property.

This property is an object of validation keywords, where the key is the
keyword name and the value an object with the properties:
  - `test` [`{function}`](functions.md): function that returns false
    if the validation failed.
    The [IDL function variable](functions.md#idl-function-variables)
    `$EXPECTED` represents the value passed to the keyword,
    and `$` represents the value to validate.
  - `message` [`{string|function}`](functions.md): error message.
    Can be [functions](functions.md) with the
    [IDL function variable](functions.md#idl-function-variables) `$EXPECTED`
    Must start with `'must '`
  - `type` `{string[]}`: optionally restrict the attributes types that can
    use that keyword

# Readonly attributes

Attributes can be marked as readonly, e.g. trying to modify them will not do
anything (but won't report any error), using `attribute.readonly`, e.g.:

```yml
weight:
  readonly: true
```

Commit message:

Allow setting readonly attributes on model creation

docs/validation.md, after:

# Data validation

Attributes can be validated by specifying in the [IDL file](idl.md)
`attribute.validate`.

`attribute.validate` is a standard [JSON schema](http://json-schema.org/),
version 6:
  - the following keywords are available:
    - for attributes of type `integer` or `number`:
      - `multipleOf` `{float}`
      - `maximum` `{float}`: `<=`
      - `exclusiveMaximum` `{float}`: `<`
      - `minimum` `{float}`: `>=`
      - `exclusiveMinimum` `{float}`: `>`
    - for attributes of type `string`:
      - `maxLength` `{integer}`: `<=`
      - `minLength` `{integer}`: `>=`
      - `pattern` `{regex}`
      - `format` `{string}`: among `'regex'`, `'date-time'`, `'date'`,
        `'time'`, `'email'`, `'hostname'`, `'ipv4'`, `'ipv6'`, `'uri'`,
        `'uri-reference'`, `'json-pointer'`, `'relative-json-pointer'`
      - `formatMaximum` `{string}`, `formatMinimum` `{string}`,
        `formatExclusiveMaximum` `{boolean}`,
        `formatExclusiveMinimum` `{boolean}`: only if `format` is `date`, `time`
        or `date-time`.
    - for attributes of array type:
      - `maxItems` `{integer}`: `<=`
      - `minItems` `{integer}`: `>=`
      - `uniqueItems` `{boolean}`: no duplicate
      - `contains` `{json_schema}`: at least one item is valid
      - `items` `{json_schema}`: all items are valid
      - `additionalItems` `{json_schema}`
    - for any attribute:
      - `const` `{any}`: must equal that value
      - `enum` `{any[]}`: must equal one of those values
      - `required` `{boolean}`: checked on `replace`, `create` and
        `upsert` actions.
      - `dependencies` `{string[]}`: attributes that are required
        for the current attribute to be defined.
    - used as combinators:
      - `not` `{json_schema}`
      - `allOf` `{json_schema[]}`
      - `anyOf` `{json_schema[]}`
      - `oneOf` `{json_schema[]}`
      - `if` `{json_schema}`, `then` `{json_schema}`, `else` `{json_schema}`
  - the following properties are not available: `type`, `description`,
    `examples`, `default`, `title`, `$id`, `$schema`, `$ref`, `definitions`
  - since attributes cannot be objects, the following properties are also
    not available: `maxProperties`, `minProperties`, `additionalProperties`,
    `properties`, `patternProperties`, `propertyNames`

E.g.:

```yml
weight:
  validate:
    minimum: 10
```

# Custom validation

If the pre-defined validation keywords are not sufficient, one can define
custom ones, using the top-level `validation` property.

This property is an object of validation keywords, where the key is the
keyword name and the value an object with the properties:
  - `test` [`{function}`](functions.md): function that returns false
    if the validation failed.
    The [IDL function variable](functions.md#idl-function-variables)
    `$EXPECTED` represents the value passed to the keyword,
    and `$` represents the value to validate.
  - `message` [`{string|function}`](functions.md): error message.
    Can be [functions](functions.md) with the
    [IDL function variable](functions.md#idl-function-variables) `$EXPECTED`
    Must start with `'must '`
  - `type` `{string[]}`: optionally restrict the attributes types that can
    use that keyword

# Readonly attributes

Readonly attributes can only be modified when the model is created.
Trying to modify them will not do anything, but won't report any error.
They can be specified using `attribute.readonly`, e.g.:

```yml
weight:
  readonly: true
```
